Analysis on NBA Career Predictor Data:


What did I discover?
Throughout the data analysis, I found out majority of NBA players went to Power Five schools (ACC, SEC, Big Ten, Big 12, and PAC12). This highlights the popularity of high school basketball players choosing these colleges over other paths to the NBA, such as the G League, Other Colleges, and International Leagues. Recently, there has been a surge of international players coming to the United States to have the opportunity to play for these prestigious schools. 
Also, another interesting insight from this data was that second biggest class (Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, and Senior) of the players that declared for the draft were Sophomores. With the one-and-done rule being enforced, it explains why many college players decide to go to the NBA right after their first year of college, because majority of the NBA prospects were freshmen. However the second biggest was Sophomores, which is strange because whenever prospects don't go to the draft, people believe it's better for them to stay and develop as much as they can in college to further increase their draft stock. Especially now with NIL, it entices college players to stay in college and further develop their skills. 

Data Quality Report:
For international players, the data quality compared to college players stats were drastic. I had to convert their Per 36 stats to Per 40 to be able to accurately compare their stats. Also, I had to calculate their advanced stats, such as TS%, 3PAr, FTr, ORTG, DRTG, etc. All of the stats that I had to calculate are in src/data_cleaning/euro_data_calculation.py.
For players that were in college before the 2009-2010, I wasn't able to calculate some advanced metrics like (PER, OBPM, etc.). 
Out of all the active players in the league, there were some that I wasn't able to put their college stats in. First example is the only active player in the league to be drafted straight out of high school is Lebron James. However, you can't really compare any prospect to Lebron James, since he's considered to be the greatest player of all time, so I decided to count him as an outlier. Another example is that they played in OTE Elite, I believe that those stats do not correlate to college, international, and G league stats. Therefore, I decided to not include those stats into the training dataset. The last example is that decided to personally train themselves, instead of taking the traditional route. For example, Mitchell Robinson committed to play at Western Kentucky, but after his godfather was fired from the staff he decided that he did not want to play for Western Kentucky anymore. Ultimately, he opted to skip college entirely and train for the draft.

 Hypothesis for what the model is going to predict:
I think the model is going to be biased towards Senior players, because their stats are better than younger prospects, since they've been in college for a longer time. It will be a little inaccurate with the international players, since I had to calculate all their advanced stats. I'm excited to see how this model works.